---
layout: post
title: How to choose your web framework
permalink: http://www.mariusv.com/how-to-choose-your-web-framework/index.html
post_id: 178
categories: 
- code
- frameworks
- php
- programming
- sysadmin
- Tutorials
---

Choose a web framework is a complicated issue. Evaluating different technical issues is mandatory. You need to bear in mind programming languages, ORM’s, testing frameworks, how to make logging and so on. But other non-technical aspects like experience, kind of project and deadeline are important too. Performance and scalability are important, no doubt, but perhaps only is the application is growing up.

Nowadays is easy to find different and good web frameworks like </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://rubyonrails.org/" rel="external">Rails</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://cakephp.org/" rel="external">CakePHP</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://codeigniter.com/" rel="external">CodeIgniter</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://turbogears.org/" rel="external">TurboGears</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://www.djangoproject.com" rel="external">Django</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://www.quixote.ca/" rel="external">Quixote</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"> or </span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;"><a target="_blank" href="http://www.springsource.org/" rel="external">Spring</a></span><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">. My personal advice is to evaluate two or three at least to take a right decision.

Here you have a small summary with issues to bear in mind before choosing a web framework:
</span><ul class="circle"><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Team’s experience**: Developers and sysadmins.</span></li><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Hosting**: Is easy to find a good environment for my framewok?</span></li><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Scalability**: How to grow.</span></li><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Performance**: Cache, operating system, web server, database replication, high-performance, failure tolerance.</span></li><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Deployment options**: Apache (mod_php, mod_python), CGI, FastCGI, WSGI.</span></li><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Deadline**: Because time is important.</span></li><li><span style="font: 13px 'Lucida Grande',LucidaGrande,Verdana,sans-serif;">**Programming issues**: ORM, logging, testing, automatic deploy, different environments, SSL, validation, mailing, internationalization, web services, programming language, authentication, AJAX, third party libraries.</span>