---
layout: post
title: Distributed filesystem with GlusterFS
categories: 
- filesystem
- glusterfs
- Tutorials
- ubuntu
---

This setup contains two <a href="http://www.gluster.org/">GlusterFS-servers</a> and one client, named _s01_, _s02_ and _c01_ in the examples below. Data stored in the mount point on _c01_ will be destributed to _s01_ and _s02_.

The <a href="http://ubuntu.com">Ubuntu</a> APT repository doesn't have the latest GlusterFS version, which we want. So we'll have to build it ourself. Do this on all 3 nodes.

Install packages required to build GlusterFS.


<pre># aptitude install build-essential flex bison</pre>


Download and install GlusterFS. As of date, 3.0.2 is the latest version.

<pre># wget http://ftp.gluster.com/pub/gluster/glusterfs/3.0/LATEST/glusterfs-3.0.2.tar.gz
# tar zxf glusterfs-3.0.2.tar.gz
# cd glusterfs-3.0.2
# ./configure
# make
# make install
# ldconfig</pre>

Make sure /export/sda2 exists on both servers, this folder will contain the data stored on the volume.

On _s01_, do this.

<pre># mkdir /etc/glusterfs
# cd /etc/glusterfs
# glusterfs-volgen --name storage01 s01:/export/sda2 s02:/export/sda2
# ln -s s01-storage01-export.vol glusterfsd.vol
# /etc/init.d/glusterfsd start</pre>

On _s02_, do this.

<pre># mkdir /etc/glusterfs
# cd /etc/glusterfs
# glusterfs-volgen --name storage01 s01:/export/sda2 s02:/export/sda2
# ln -s s02-storage01-export.vol glusterfsd.vol
# /etc/init.d/glusterfsd start</pre>

On _c01_, do this.

<pre># mkdir /etc/glusterfs
# cd /etc/glusterfs
# glusterfs-volgen --name storage01 s01:/export/sda2 s02:/export/sda2</pre>

Edit /etc/fstab on c01 and add the following line.

<pre>/etc/glusterfs/storage01-tcp.vol        /storage        glusterfs defaults,_netdev      0       0</pre>

The share can now be mounted on the client.

<pre># mount /storage
# mount
...
/etc/glusterfs/storage01-tcp.vol on /storage type fuse.glusterfs (rw,allow_other,default_permissions,max_read=131072)</pre>

That's it, for more failsafe setup, consider using -raid for the glusterfs-volgen command.


